Rationale 
Emily Barnwell


During my development of assignment 1’s Basic Web Application, I learned quite a few new things, and brushed up on a few of my earlier learnings as well.

Going through all of the moduels on Cavas again was a lot easier compared to the first time when we went through the content in class— I found that I was able to experiment more with what I had learned, which eventually lead to me creating three tables to store data instead of just one. I also found it worthwhile to play around with some of the variable fields in order to achieve more desired results— I was happy that I was able to find a nice way for dates to be entered into my database. I would have liked to learn how to do drop-down menus as it would have fit some of my fields, however it might just simply be something I’ll have to try next time.

Working out the log-in system was the most challenging part of the process. I ended up watching a lengthy Youtube tutorial (as seen here) that helped me through the process. I appreciated how informative the tutorial was. I ended up writing the code from scratch and listening along to make sure I actually understood what the code was saying. I don’t believe I have a strong grasp on PHP language yet, but I’m definitely making more sense of it as it’s explained to me time and time again.

The CSS styling was something I was more familiar with when it came to this assignment, and I had fun utilizing bootstrap in order to make my website look more appealing. I didn’t end up deviating much from what bootstrap provided, however I found that simply utilizing what it had to offer was more than enough. I would have liked to add more of my own flair to the website, as while it is very neat, it’s also very bland, and could use with more decoration.

Getting my website up online was one of the hardest parts for me. I found my files became all messy as I had to transfer them over onto a web server, and I feel as if I had more time and patience, I would have tried to sort my files out a little better.

Overall, I had fun with this assignment— I feel there is more I could have done, but I’m happy with my results so far.
